So how else can we optimize this.
Well you might notice that this J has X code here in yen can be repeated over and over again every input
looks like this.
We have a view where the label with text input itself and we might also want some error text which we
can display.
So it would make sense to outsource this into a separate component.
And that's exactly what I want to do.
I'll go to my components folder and there in the UI folder I'll add a input J.S. file which will hold
a react component so I import react from react of course and then import a couple of things from React
Native and these things in the end are my view text component to text input component and the style
sheet because I'll need this as well from Raich native with that here we can create de input component
here which gets props and needs to return some J JS X we'll have a styles object with style sheets create
and of course in the end we export this as a default here this component.
Now if we go back to the edit product screen we can cut this title J is X code so the surrounding view
the text the text input enters error message part cut it out of here out of the edit product screen
and move that into the input screen and there use it as a return value in the input component here.
Now of course we'll need to adjust as a little bit but that's our general skeleton which I want to use
there.
Now also from the edit product screen I'll take the styling there.
This form control label and input styling can all be removed and should be moved over into the input
component and they're into the style sheet.
So now with that of course this only can be used for a title and I want to create a input component
which can be used for any input debt for example means that the label here needs to be dynamic.
So I'll expect to get this on a prop named label maybe
I also in general want to make sure that the text input can be configured from outside.
So I will forward all props I get on my input component here to the text input so that on this input
component we'll be able to set things like the keyboard type because I don't want to hard code does
in here.
Instead this should be a reusable wrapper around the text input component which can be configured from
outside.
So these settings here for example I will cut them from here so that we can set them from outside.
I'll also get rid of these listeners because we don't really need them
the error text here should all be sellable from outside so we'll check for props.
Error or text here.
And of course you can as always give these props any names you want.
Of course we'll all have to change what we assign here as a value and so on.
That will also change.
But now we can already start using that input here.
Let's go to the edit product screen and dear I will just go to the top and import input from the components
folder of course and there from the UI folder and there from input.
And then we can start using the input component in the place where it previously had my text input component
here.
So there I will just add input and now on input we can add to setting which I cut like the keyboard
type and so on because it will be forwarded.
We can set our tile label like title and alter our possible error a text like Please enter a valid title
though that's not all we'll do regarding validation but it's a start.
This is how we can then use this input.
And of course is also how we can now use it to replace the other inputs.
So for example here the image your l here I set this to image your l Please enter a valid image you
are L maybe keyboard type T fold it's okay auto capitalization auto correction is not required return
key type.
Next we can leave fled we're not doing anything with it we could add some logic but I'm not doing it
here for the prize I'll leave de conditional rendering but in there I can add my input here
set this to prize Please enter a valid prize keyboard type here should of course not be default but
decimal Pat don't need auto capitalization on auto correction so let's get rid of that inverted description
here I'll also add my input here description please enter a valid description keyboard type can be default
I can use auto capitalization auto correction however I'll not set a return key type but here I want
to set multi line just like this which allows for multi-level editing and set number of lines to let's
say free.
This however is only used by Android but data it will restrict the number of lines you can enter when
I Westerners will not have an effect but this is how you can use this input component and still configure
it from outside.
That being said as I said we're not done though.
What about the value end does change text listener.
There are different ways of how you could handle this text input or the text values here.
You could still simply forward it to the parent component and only used as input component as a visual
wrapper.
But I will take it a bit further and I want to manage this value and the validity of this single input
inside of the input component.
So today then only reports back to my parent component so to the added product screen in the end what
the current value is and whether it's valid or not.
So that validation doesn't need to happen instead of the parent component.
But again dad is totally up to you whether you want to do that or not here.
I will add a new constant in the input component text change handler where I get this enter text because
that's now what I bind or what is already bound and I will generally keep it like this though we don't
need the identifier here anymore.
Don't need blind therefore because well this is inside of a single input we don't need an identifier
there.
This will Naledi for trigger on every keystroke and hence.
Now here I want to check whether this is valid or not and also manage my value off that input now for
that we can again use a reducer or individual states managed with using state or created with you state
but all go for a road user.
And here I have my input reducer name is up to you gets the state gets action and returns and you state
in the end.
Then here into the input I can call use reducer and forward or set this to the input reducer.
In my initial state for as input here will be a simple javascript object with free values the value
which you currently have which initially can be empty but actually I want to allow myself to set an
initial value from outside because we will need this.
For example when we're editing products so I check Weber props.
Initial value is set.
Again this is of course a name you can choose however you want.
And if this is the case I'll set this to props.
Initial value.
Otherwise I'll set out to set this to an empty string.
Then I will all manage whether it is valid or not and there again I can check if props initially valid
let's say is set.
If that's the case then I will automatically take that value which should be true or false.
If it's not the case this will automatically be treated as false.
And I will also manage where it is has been touched yet or not.
So whether the user did actually type here and this can be useful for helping us with providing a better
user experience regarding when we show validation errors.
And here I will set this to fault initially.
Now of course this will return us the input state snapshot and a dispatch function which I here can
alter named dispatch because we will have no name clash and the text change handler of course I will
dispatch an action action which I therefore will create here with the action identifier input change
for example that should be dispatched here.
Type input change and then here India reducer we can add a switch statement to mix things up check the
action type and for the case input change we want to do something in the default case I will just return
my state so we'll not do anything but here of course I want to do something else.
Now here in the text change handler obviously I dispatch input change and I want to forward the value
which has store now value key.
But now here I also want to do input specific validation and forward to information whenever the input
is valid or not and for it is attached.
You find some validation setup or some validation code which I'll now walk you through.
Here I have a constant that sets up by email regular expressions so a regular expression that allows
us to validate email addresses.
We have no email address input yet but later when we add authentication we will have that and then I
want to be able to use this input component.
So then this component should be prepared to also validate emails.
Then I have to is valid helper variable here because then we have a bunch of checks here.
Now I want to make sure that we can set the criteria we want to use from outside with the help of props.
So for example I'd check if a required props is set if that's set to true.
So if it's set at all and if that is the case then this check will be performed if the required prop
is not set does check will not be performed and therefore this validation is not performed and that's
the case for all my different validations here.
So we can set the required prop to check whether it's not empty if it is empty we said is valid to false.
We can set up email a prop on the input component to validated for being a valid email address.
If it's not we set it to false.
We can check a number for being too small or too big or a string for being too short with the min length
validator.
And of course you could add more logic here possibly of that with a package like validate JSA which
I already mentioned earlier now with that I will have is valid in the end which is true by default but
falls as soon as one validation fails and therefore now we can add is valid to this dispatched action
as well.